{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AnonymousPro;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 AnonymousPro-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12000\viewh9600\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 This document was written by me (Steve Wainstead) and it pertains to the BRFSS data from the CDC.\
\
My first reservation about the data is that it is \'93self reported\'94:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'93Self-report studies have validity problems. Patients may exaggerate symptoms in order to make their situation seem worse, or they may under-report the severity or frequency of symptoms in order to minimize their problems. Patients might also simply be mistaken or misremember the material covered by the survey.\'94\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-report_study\
\
Note that: \'93\cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 Since 2011, adult students living in college housing were included as eligible respondents.\'94\
\
This could skew results depending on what you\'92re looking at, if you are trying to detect trends that span years.\cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\
\'97\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 15. How are BRFSS data weighted? What variables are used when weighting BRFSS data?\'a0collapsed\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 From the 1980s to 2010, CDC has used a statistical method called post stratification to weight BRFSS survey data to known proportions of age, race and ethnicity, sex, geographic region within a population. In 2011 the BRFSS moved to a new weighting methodology known as iterative proportional fitting or raking. Raking has several advantages over post stratification. First, it allows the introduction of more demographic variables--such as education level, marital status, and home ownership--into the statistical weighting process than would have been possible with post stratification. This advantage reduces the potential for bias and increases the representativeness of estimates. Second, raking allows for the incorporation of a now-crucial variable--telephone ownership (landline and/or cellular telephone)--into the BRFSS weighting methodology.\uc0\u8232 Beginning with the 2011 dataset, raking succeeded post stratification as the BRFSS statistical weighting method. As noted in the previous paragraph, age, sex, categories of ethnicity, geographic regions within states, marital status, education level, home ownership and type of phone ownership are currently used to weight BRFSS data. \
\
from https://www.cdc.gov/brfss/about/brfss_faq.htm\
\
\'97\
\
}