{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh13620\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Suggested reading:
\b0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.openintro.org/stat/textbook.php?stat_book=os"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 OpenIntro Statistics, 3rd edition}}, Chapter 1, Section 1.6\

\b LO 1.
\b0  Use scatterplots for describing the relationship between two numerical variables making sure to note the direction (positive or negative), form (linear or non-linear) and the strength of the relationship as well as any unusual observations that stand out. \

\b LO 2. 
\b0 When describing the distribution of a numerical variable, mention its shape, center, and spread, as well as any unusual observations. \

\b LO 3.
\b0  Note that there are three commonly used measures of center and spread: \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 center: mean (the arithmetic average), median (the midpoint), mode (the most frequent observation).\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 spread: standard deviation (variability around the mean), range (max-min), interquartile range (middle 50% of the distribution).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 LO 4.
\b0  Identify the shape of a distribution as symmetric, right skewed, or left skewed, and unimodal, bimodal, multimodal, or uniform. \

\b LO 5. 
\b0 Use histograms and box plots to visualize the shape, center, and spread of numerical distributions, and intensity maps for visualizing the spatial distribution of the data. \

\b LO 6.
\b0  Define a robust statistic (e.g. median, IQR) as a statistic that is not heavily affected by skewness and extreme outliers, and determine when such statistics are more appropriate measures of center and spread compared to other similar statistics. \

\b LO 7. 
\b0 Recognize when transformations (e.g. log) can make the distribution of data more symmetric, and hence easier to model. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\i\b \cf2 Test yourself: 
\i0\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\i \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Describe what is meant by robust statistics and when they are used.
\i0 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\i \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Describe when and why we might want to apply a log transformation to a variable.
\i0 \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Suggested reading:
\b0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.openintro.org/stat/textbook.php?stat_book=os"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 OpenIntro Statistics, 3rd edition}}, Chapter 1, Sections 1.7 - 1.8\

\b LO 1.
\b0  Use frequency tables and bar plots to describe the distribution of one categorical variable. \

\b LO 2.
\b0  Use contingency tables and segmented bar plots or mosaic plots to assess the relationship between two categorical variables. \

\b LO 3. 
\b0 Use side-by-side box plots for assessing the relationship between a numerical and a categorical variable. \

\i\b Test yourself:
\i0\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\i \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Interpret the plot in Figure 1.30 of OpenIntro Statistics (page 39).
\i0 \
\ls3\ilvl0
\i \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 You collect data on 100 classmates, 70 females and 30 males. 10% of the class are smokers, and smoking is independent of gender. Calculate how many males and females would be expected to be smokers. Sketch a mosaic plot of this scenario.
\i0 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
}